Today we will go deeper into
the concept of discount rate.
The discount rate is a key piece
that will help us understand
the van, the shot, how the
discount of cash flows works,
how a company is valued, etc.
If we do not understand this and do not
understand it intuitively, it
will be very difficult for us to
understand the subsequent classes.
Let us go back to the formula.
We have the discounted cash flow
formula, in which we have
a current value that we will
get by discounting a series
of flows that occur in the
future.
They are predictable to occur,
are in the future, have not yet
occurred, and there is a certain
risk that these flows will
occur or not.
So what is the key?
We make a projection of cash flows,
estimate the flows and what is
the variable that makes the current
value greater or lesser?
The discount factor.
We are dividing each of the flows
and bringing them to the present moment.
Therefore, it is the discount
rate that determines the
value of that project,
the value of that cash flow.
The first thing I want you
to understand is that the discount
rate, the rate at which we will discount
all those flows, depends on
the profitability we demand
from the investment.
It may not be intuitive for you
at this time, but I think we will
understand it throughout the
class.
The discount rate depends on profitability.
If we demand a higher profitability,
we will discount those flows
at a higher rate and the current
value will be lower.
Well, let's go deeper into this.
Let's think, I said, the discount
rate depends on the profitability
we demand.
We must be able to calculate
it.
What is the value of
a project, an investment?
It depends on two factors.
The first is the risk-free interest,
that is, the interest you can get
from another investment
that does not have risk.
It is usually said in the letters of the
Treasury, for example, of Germany or the
United States.
I want you to understand the
concept.
Imagine that you can get, in
government bonds, you can
get a return of 25% annually.
What would be the minimum return
you would require from
any investment you make, anybody?
For if I can get a 25% on
an investment that has a
very low risk, why am
I going to get into any jaleo
if it doesn't offer me
a higher return?
I think it is easy to understand.
The first factor is
risk-free interest.
In addition, to the profitability
we demand we will add, in addition
to the interest without risk, we will
add the risk premium.
What is the risk premium?
Depending on the risk that exists
or we perceive, we will demand
greater profitability in that investment,
in that project, in that company.
This is one of the class economics.
More profitability, more risk
If we perceive that those cash flows
that have been projected,
imagine, they have told us, you
will receive $100,000 every year.
If we perceive that there is a
lot of risk that these cash flows are
actually given or not, because it
depends on many factors, well, whatever
it is.
If we perceive a lot of risk,
we have to discount those cash
flows at a higher rate.
We have to take this risk premium.
Therefore, the required profitability
is equal, we must understand
that it is equal to the interest
we can get without risk plus
a risk premium.
As I said, the discount
rate is this.
The discount rate is calculated
as the risk-free interest
plus the risk premium.